MediaKeys.getStatusForPolicy() docs (#34236)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/api/mediakeys/getstatusforpolicy/index.md

- `usable-in-future`
  - : The key will become usable for decryption in future, once its start time is reached.
- `status-pending`
  - : The status of the key is not yet known and is being determined.
- `internal-error`
  - : The key is not currently usable for decryption because of an error in the CDM.
    The application can't do anything to handle this case.

### Exceptions

- `TypeError`

  - : The `policy` has no defined properties (policy restrictions), or a property key is not valid.

- `NotSupportedError`
  - : The CDMcannot determine the status for all/any of the policy restrictions.

## Examples

### Check if keys are usable with HDCP restriction

This example checks if keys are usuable for decrypting a particular video format when using a minimum HDCP version of `2.2`.

#### HTML

```html
<pre id="log"></pre>
```

```css hidden
#log {
  height: 100px;
  overflow: scroll;
  padding: 0.5rem;
  border: 1px solid black;
}
```

#### JavaScript

```js hidden
const logElement = document.querySelector("#log");
function log(text) {
  logElement.innerText = `${logElement.innerText}${text}\n`;
  logElement.scrollTop = logElement.scrollHeight;
}
```

> ```js

Author: This config results in `output-restricted`. I would have liked to find one that was `usable` as well but don't know how.

Reviewer: This one is tricky. I tried this out a few times locally using some variations for the `videoCapabilities` with no luck. I found this works as-is, but I needed to **detach my external monitor** which I was not expecting. I went looking for "HDCP Error" and found mostly support forums to say "check cables" etc.

We should add a note here because I'm certain others will run into it.

Reviewer: I get this at https://googlechrome.github.io/samples/hdcp-detection/ after detaching external displays:

<img width="964" alt="image" src="https://github.com/mdn/content/assets/43580235/4ad54482-3bff-4079-9960-6b8de5920975">

Author: Fixed

---
title: "MediaKeys: getStatusForPolicy() method"
short-title: getStatusForPolicy()
slug: Web/API/MediaKeys/getStatusForPolicy
page-type: web-api-instance-method
browser-compat: api.MediaKeys.getStatusForPolicy
---

{{APIRef("Encrypted Media Extensions")}}{{SecureContext_Header}}

The `getStatusForPolicy()` method of the {{domxref("MediaKeys")}} interface is used to check whether the Content Decryption Module (CDM) would allow the presentation of encrypted media data using the keys, based on the specified policy requirements.

The method returns a {{jsxref("Promise")}} that resolves with a string that indicates the status of the key with respect to all the specified policy requirements.
If the value resolves to `"usable"` then the content can be decrypted and presented at the ideal quality.
Other values indicate reasons why the keys cannot be used for presenting the content; in some cases they hint at fallback options, such as playing the content at a lower quality.

The policy restrictions currently only include a restriction on the minimum supported HDCP version.

> Note that the method checks a "hypothetical key" against the restrictions.

Author: FYI, this, and the example, are a modified form of stuff from https://developer.chrome.com/blog/media-updates-in-chrome-69/
It's much the same API repackaged in a new standard.
The point here is that this is an easy way of checking whether the key can be used, without having to get a key.

The application does not need to first create a real key and fetch a real license using {{domxref("MediaKeySession")}}, and the {{domxref("MediaKeys")}} doesn't even have to be attached to audio or video elements.

## Syntax

```js-nolint
getStatusForPolicy(policy)
```

### Parameters

- `policy` {{optional_inline}}

  - : An object with the following optional properties:

    - `minHdcpVersion` {{optional_inline}}

      - : A string indicating the semantic version of the minimum HDCP version to check for usability, such as `1.0`, `1.4`, `2.2`, `2.3`.

>         The values are defined in the [Encrypted Media Extensions HDCP Version Registry](https://www.w3.org/TR/eme-hdcp-version-registry/) (note that at time of writing this link does not work).

Reviewer: Maybe remove this?

```suggestion
```

I don't know if this is any better: https://wicg.github.io/hdcp-detection/#hdcp-policy

Or do we expect the link to work in future?

Author: I don't know what is better - to link to this old superseded spec that defines the information as an enum, or to wait until the registry indicated by the current spec is populated.

I chose to link the registry because at least this will get revisited in future if the link does not get fixed.

Author: Actually, you're right, just removing.
```suggestion
```

> **Note:** At least one policy restriction must be specified, so `minHdcpVersion` is only "technically" optional.

### Return value

A {{jsxref("Promise")}} that resolves with a string indicating whether the key can be used for decryption given the specified policy.

The string can have one of the following values:

- `usable`
  - : The key is currently usable for decryption.
- `expired`
  - : The key is no longer usable for decryption because its expiration time has passed.
- `released`
  - : The key has been released and is no longer available to the CDM.
    However information about the key is available, such as a record of license destruction.
- `output-restricted`

>   - : There are output restrictions associated with the key based on the specified policy.

Reviewer: Do you want to mention anything about troubleshooting here like my other comment?

Author: Absolutely. This is the most important place :-). I've defined in https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/34236/files#r1675011591 and I'll cross link from elsewhere.

> - `output-restricted`
>   - : There are output restrictions associated with the key based on the specified policy.
>     Media data decrypted with this key may be blocked from presentation.
>     An application might, for example, opt to use a higher HDCP version, or content that does not require such a high version.

Author: ```suggestion
- `output-restricted`
  - : There are output restrictions associated with the key based on the specified policy.
    Media data decrypted with this key may be blocked from presentation.
    The status indicates that the connection between the source and output (for example, your computer and an external display), is not be trusted.
    This might that there are HDCP version mismatches between the source and output, or that an intermediate connecting device such as a video splitter, or even the HDMI cable itself, is damaged or non-compliant.
    An application might opt to use a higher HDCP version, content that does not require such a high version.
    You should also check that intermediate devices and cables support HDCP, are connected firmly, and are not damaged.
```

    An application might, for example, opt to use a higher HDCP version, or content that does not require such a high version.
- `output-downscaled`
  - : There are output restrictions associated with the key based on the specified policy, however these restrictions might be relaxed if the content is played at a lower quality.
    If this value is returned an application might play the content at a lower resolution, or it could choose to use a higher HDCP version, or use other content that does not require such a high HDCP version.
- `usable-in-future`
  - : The key will become usable for decryption in future, once its start time is reached.
- `status-pending`
  - : The status of the key is not yet known and is being determined.
- `internal-error`
  - : The key is not currently usable for decryption because of an error in the CDM.
    The application can't do anything to handle this case.

### Exceptions

- `TypeError`

  - : The `policy` has no defined properties (policy restrictions), or a property key is not valid.

- `NotSupportedError`

>   - : The CDMcannot determine the status for all/any of the policy restrictions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - : The CDM cannot determine the status for any or all of the policy restrictions.
```

## Examples

### Check if keys are usable with HDCP restriction

> This example checks if keys are usuable for decrypting a particular video format when using a minimum HDCP version of `2.2`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example checks if keys are usuable for decrypting a particular video format when using a minimum HDCP version of `2.2`.

> **Note:**
> An `output-restricted` media key status may indicate hardware issues.
> When troubleshooting this response, check if your display and HDMI cables support High-bandwidth Digital Content Protection (HDCP).
```

Author: `output-restricted` is now more fully defined above. I've therefore made this note specific to external monitors.

```suggestion
This example checks if keys are usable for decrypting a particular video format when using a minimum HDCP version of `2.2`.

> **Note:** A status of `output-restricted` when you're using an external display can be caused by hardware HDCP incompatibility issues.
> If using a laptop, you may be able to "fix" this by disconnecting the external display.
```

    - `minHdcpVersion` {{optional_inline}}

      - : A string indicating the semantic version of the minimum HDCP version to check for usability, such as `1.0`, `1.4`, `2.2`, `2.3`.

> **Note:** At least one policy restriction must be specified, so `minHdcpVersion` is only "technically" optional.

### Return value

A {{jsxref("Promise")}} that resolves with a string indicating whether the key can be used for decryption given the specified policy.

The string can have one of the following values:

- `usable`
  - : The key is currently usable for decryption.
- `expired`
  - : The key is no longer usable for decryption because its expiration time has passed.
- `released`
  - : The key has been released and is no longer available to the CDM.
    However information about the key is available, such as a record of license destruction.
- `output-restricted`
  - : There are output restrictions associated with the key based on the specified policy.
    Media data decrypted with this key may be blocked from presentation.
    The status indicates that the connection between the source and output (for example, your computer and an external display), is not trusted.

>     This might that there are HDCP version mismatches between the source and output, or that an intermediate connecting device such as a video splitter, or even the HDMI cable itself, is damaged or non-compliant.

Author: ```suggestion
    This might indicate that there are HDCP version mismatches between the source, intermediate devices, and output, or that intermediate connecting devices such as HDMI cables or video splitters are damaged or non-compliant.
```
